Tigger is welcome back.
So that's actually going to do is we're going to talk about two major categories of competitions and
I'm going to kind of divide a line between them and use that as a way to better understand what your
options are.
Now the last lecture I said we're going to break down the different categories.
And quite frankly if you spend enough time on in Sacramento they kind of fall into two different categories.
You have competitions and then you have giveaways or alternatively you will call those sweepstakes.
Now whether or not there is a huge difference between these two or without the overlap doesn't really
matter.
This is mainly just so that it's easier to conceptualize them.
Now competition is typically something where you ask your followers to do something in order to enter
into a competition.
And at some point it's like judged a giveaway.
On the other hand generally implies that there is some prize for a very minimal entry into it kind of
like a sweepstakes if you like a sweepstakes for instance.
Typically that's says like if you sign up or give us your name you're entered to win very low entry
but also very low possibility of winning whereas a competition would be the top 10 people to do the
best at blank will be entered to win or will win some prize.
What are the other primary differences between these two is that if you get into a competition you have
to plan this pretty much in advance.
It's very hard to do this upfront because you have to create enough Klammer or Baugh's in order to get
people to jump over that hump of doing whatever it is that you want them to do.
Whereas a giveaway.
Honestly you can do those kind of last second if you watch our Instagram live section and you saw I
did a giveaway and I planned it 24 hours in advance so it was literally it.
I posted a story the day before with a poll and then I just did it the next day.
Now there are relative advantages to both so you need to keep this in mind.
Typically speaking of the competition it's going to cost you more.
Whatever it is that you're giving away it's going to need to be higher value.
Why.
Well the threshold for someone to get into this is just going to be quite a bit higher give you an example.
You know I think a competition might be meant.
Dotcom did a competition where they wanted people to post photos of some financial moment in their life
and then put a hash tag.
OK.
Now contrast that to a giveaway where someone just gives away a pair of shoes and they post on their
Instagram account and the first person to tag friends wins or Tag a friend to enter.
So generally speaking competitions are a little more highbrow but they're harder to pull off.
And you have to put a little more money and effort into them.
Competitions also are great for what we call UGC user generated content.
Oftentimes at competitions.
People will ask their followers to make their own posts like that meant example.
Ask people to make their own posts showing them doing something related to finance.
This obviously has a side benefit to it which is that there are going to post it on their own feeds
which gets you access to their followers.
It's also pretty interesting because you can really use a lot of that UGC later on and you see a lot
of accounts like we covered FedEx before their entire count is primarily user generated content and
they get a lot of it through running these competitions.
Now give away on the other hand it's generally cheaper you can get away with doing it for literally
anything and you could do it for $10 20 bucks or even something that doesn't have a monetary value but
it's somehow valuable to your followers.
But at the same time you have to understand that the type of attention this is going to attract is generally
going to be a much wider group of people but they're not exactly people that are absolutely interested
in your account or what you're doing.
There's a tendency online that anytime you have a giveaway or sweepstakes people just will flock to
it regardless of whether or not they like what you're doing.
So you are a software for programmers you're in a competition where you gave away a really fancy keyboard.
A lot of people just go and enter that and you know you might get a follow or like from that person
which could be good for your engagement but is that person really someone that you want to follow your
account.
So it's a question oftentimes of quantity versus quality or in the next lecture what we're going to
do is we're going to dive a little bit into competitions.
The harder ones that have the more upside potential.
But in general are just going to cost you more money and have a higher threshold to enter.
All right guys see you next lecture.